---
published: true 
title: Daily Git Study
layout: post
author: jungwook
category: git
tags:
- Git
---

### Avoiding whitespace issues


git automatically warns about spaces at the end of a line. blank lines at the end of a file and spaces before tabs at the beginning of a line.

To get warnings about whitespace when you use `git diff`, add the following to your `.gitconfig` file:

```{.bash}
[core]
  whitespace = warn
```

Alternatively, execute the command to do exactly the same :

```{.bash}
$ git config --global core.whitespace warn
```

Now git will highlight the whitespace issues so you can fix them.


### Squashing commits

If you contribute to an open source project, e.g. by submitting a pull request with a bug fix, it should be presented as one unit of code.

You should `squash` your commits together. For example, if you have three commits:

```{.bash}
git reset HEAD~3
git add .
git commit -am "Fix bug #14"
git push --force
```

The `--force` option is needed if the commits have already been pushed, in order for them to be replaced. Beware that this overwrites previous hisotry so always avoid when possible.

By squashing you can get rid of `"fix typo"` commits and have all your changes grouped in just one commit. That will keep the maintainer happy!



### Delete all untracked files

Use `git clean` to remove untracked files from your local repository.

To delete untracked files in the current directory:

```{.bash}
$ git clean -f
```

To remove untracked directories:

```{.bash}
$ git clean -f -d
```

You also can clean the working directory interactively by using the `-i` flag:

```{.bash}
$ git clean -f -i
```

you can use `-n` to have a dry-run of the operation and display the results without actually deleting anything.

### Prune remote tracking references

You may have reference to old remote branches in your local repository.

Use `--prune` to remove references to branches that have been deleted from the remote server:

```{.bash}
$ git fetch origin --prune
```

That will clean up your log.


### Overcome line-edning issues

Windows use a carrage-return character and a linefeed character (CRLF) for new lines in files, whereas Mac and Linux systems use a linefeed character(LF).

To make sure the files in the team's shared repository have LF endings and to prevent problems when you checkout to Windows, you can set `core.autocrlf`. 

On Windows

```{.bash}
$ git config --global core.autocrlf true
```

On Mac and Linux

```{.bash}
git config --global core.autocrlf input
```


